>> JAX: Previously on
Sons of Anarchy:
>> GAALAN: Meet needs to be on
neutral ground.
>> CLAY: There's an Indian
reservation ten minutes
from here.
Very private.
>> POTTER: Juan Carlos just
locked down our Irish cartel
gun meet.
>> CLAY: Where are the letters?
Tara's still got 'em?
>> PINEY: Just leave her
out of it, huh?
>> CLAY: Too late.
We have an internal threat.
>> ROMEO: The doctor.
That's your VP's old lady.
We'll clean it up.
>> TARA: What?! Oh, my God!
What are you doing?!
(screams)
Jax!
(Tara gasping)
>> JAX: You'll be okay.
>> OPIE: Oh, my God! Dad?!
Oh, my God! Shit!
What are you doing here?!
>> UNSER: Clay killed
your old man.
Clay's got to go, son.
>> JAX: Want to tell me what
happened to Piney?
>> OPIE: You should know,
you're Clay's boy.
Clay killed my old man!
Did you know?!
>> JAX: No, Ope!
>> OPIE: You're gonna die
at the gavel.
>> JAX: Ope!
Put it down.
Please, Ope...
don't make me kill you.
(Jax panting)
(Clay grunts)
(Clay gasping)
(Opie grunts, gasps)
>> JAX: Oh, shit.
>> RAT BOY: I heard shots!
>> JAX: Just keep breathing.
>> RAT BOY: Shit! What happened?
>> JAX: Call an ambulance.
>> UNSER: Oh, Christ!
>> JAX: Call an ambulance now!
>> UNSER: Gunshots. Sheriff's
gonna be all over this!
>> CLAY: Get me outside.
It happened in the garage.
>> JAX: Yeah. Come on. Come on!
On three. Two, three!
>> UNSER: What do I tell
Roosevelt, huh? Mexicans?
>> CLAY: No, say it was black.
>> JAX: Yeah, yeah.
Hey, I'll take care of Opie!
Get rid of those guns
and clean up the blood!
>> UNSER: I'm getting real good
at that.
>> JAX: He was shot by
two black guys outside
the garage.
You ever want to make patch,
that's your story until
I tell you otherwise.
>> RAT BOY: I get it.
(Clay groans)
>> JAX: Keep it wrapped.
Get out of here.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
You think he's gonna make it?
>> UNSER: I don't know.
Hey, you should get out
of here, too. Go.
>> JAX: Yeah.
(tires squeal)
(sirens approaching)
(labored breathing)
(horns beeping)
>> OPIE: I'm gonna kill him.
>> JAX: No, you're gonna let
me find out what the hell
happened.
>> OPIE: Talk to your mother.
Gemma and Unser found my old man
up at the cabin.
They knew Clay killed him.
Tried to pass it off as
a cartel hit.
>> JAX: How do you know that?
>> OPIE: Unser followed me up
there last night.
>> JAX: Jesus Christ.
I'm gonna drop you at the
emergency care off of Crane.
Lyla'll pick you up.
You've got to lay low, Ope.
I'll tell the guys you're up at
the cabin.
I will find the truth,
I promise.
(Opie chuckles)
>> OPIE: Just what I need...
another promise.
(rhythmic beeping)
>> What's his blood pressure?
>> Uh, 80/60.
>> How much fluid has he had?
>> Uh, two liters.
>> Both lines in?
>> Both lines in, Doctor.
>> Okay. Call the O.R.?
>> UNSER: I was headed over to
get a new starter for my truck.
I roll up to the gate, see a
black SUV speeding out.
>> ROOSEVELT: Mm-hmm.
>> UNSER: A Yukon, I think.
Looked like two African-American
males.
Uh, tinted windows.
Didn't get a real good look.
>> ROOSEVELT: Mm-hmm.
>> UNSER: Uh... pulled in the
lot, find Clay laying there.
>> ROOSEVELT: Did he say
anything?
About the shooters.
>> UNSER: No, he was... barely
conscious.
I called EMS.
>> ROOSEVELT: And there was no
one else on the lot?
>> CHIBS: No. We'd split an hour
or so before.
>> ROOSEVELT: So Clay was by
himself?
>> TIG: Yeah.
>> UNSER: He was keeping the
garage open late for me.
>> ROOSEVELT: Yeah? And what
about security cameras?
>> HAPPY: They don't record.
>> ROOSEVELT: Of course they
don't.
All right, I want to speak to
Clay when he's conscious.
The rest of you, just...
stay available.
>> TIG: Hey.
So they were black Niners?
>> CHIBS: Had to be.
>> UNSER: I'm not sure.
I didn't see colors.
Hey, Gemma.
>> TIG: This is on me.
Nah, nah, nah, Clay wanted
me to stay.
He had a feeling something
was going down.
>> CHIBS: We don't know anything
yet, Tiggy, okay?
>> TIG: I do, I do, I do.
A brother asked for help...
I turned my back.
>> CHIBS: Hey.
Hey.
>> GEMMA: How bad is it?
>> UNSER: Doc said
he's critical.
One of the bullets hit a lung.
(door opens)
>> GEMMA: Where are you
taking him?
I'm his wife.
>> We're prepping him for
surgery.
Follow me and I can bring you up
to speed.
>> GEMMA: That's okay.
Just keep him alive.
>> ♪ Riding through this world
All alone
♪ God takes your soul
You're on your own
♪ The crow flies straight
A perfect line
♪ On the devil's bed
Until you die
♪ Gotta look this life
In the eye. ♪
>> POTTER: Lieutenant Roosevelt,
thank you for joining us.
The Wahewa land is proving to be
a bit of a logistical challenge.
>> ROOSEVELT: You know Clay
Morrow was shot last night.
>> POTTER: Yes, I know.
Black retaliation, yes?
>> ROOSEVELT: He's in critical
condition.
We got two other key members
in lockdown.
Do you really think this meet is
gonna happen?
>> POTTER: The Irish are here.
The cartel.
They all have a lot to lose if
they let this opportunity pass.
My guess is...
Teller takes the reins.
>> GRAD: Either way we have to
play this out.
>> ROOSEVELT: That means you
don't get Clay.
>> POTTER: It appears someone
else is determined to right
that wrong.
(shower running)
(shower turns off)
(door slides open)
>> TARA: Rough night?
>> JAX: Clay got shot.
He's in critical condition
at St. Thomas.
>> TARA: Hm. Who did it?
>> JAX: I'm not sure.
I'm still getting out, Tara.
Deal with the Irish
goes down today.
>> TARA: And then what?
>> JAX: Then I put my goddamn
family in a car and we drive the
hell out of Charming.
>> TARA: Just like that, Jax?
Change your clothes, wash off
the blood...
>> JAX: Yeah, Tara,
just like that.
Look...
I know it's not gonna be an easy
shift-- I'm not delusional-- but
I also know you're not clear
right now.
>> TARA: I'd argue... I'm the
clearest I've ever been.
>> JAX: Trust me, babe...
rage feels that way.
Have Phil and Elyda help you
pack.
I'll be back tonight.
>> TARA: Yeah.
Okay.
Jax.
Tell me you love me.
>> JAX: I love you, Tara.
Do you love me?
>> TARA: If I could stop I
would.
I love you, Jackson.
>> JAX: You need a bigger bowl?
>> PHIL: I like cereal.
>> JAX: Stay close to Tara.
She's going to need your help
today.
>> PHIL: Absolutely, man.
>> JAX: And if you see Gemma,
tell her I'm looking for her.
>> PHIL: Okay.
>> JAX: Hey.
How's he doing?
>> CHIBS: They've gone back into
surgery.
Having a problem with his lung.
>> HAPPY: Goddamn cigars.
>> JAX: Shit.
Any word from Bobby or Juice?
>> CHIBS: Nothing on Juice.
Hopefully he's off on one of his
joyrides.
We have bigger problems.
I talked to Lowen.
Bobby signed in at Stockton and
didn't sign out.
>> JAX: What the hell does that
mean?
>> CHIBS: Maybe Lenny can tell
us.
He wants a sit-down with you
today.
Lowen said he's pretty jacked up
about it.
>> JAX: Oh, my God.
Okay.
>> HAPPY: Ope and Tig are
MIA, too.
Ope's at the cabin checking on
Piney.
Tig's so wound up about this
Clay thing he's probably neck
deep in cold pussy.
All right, I'm going to go to
Stockton.
Keep me in the loop.
>> CHIBS: Hey, you be careful,
yeah?
(engine starting)
(door opens)
(sighs)
>> GEMMA: Where is she?
>> PHIL: Bedroom.
Jax is looking for you.
It sounded important.
>> GEMMA: Another vacation?
>> TARA: Yep. 'Cause the first
one went so well.
(sets bag down)
>> GEMMA: Clay was shot
last night.
>> TARA: I know.
>> GEMMA: By Opie.
>> TARA: What?
Why would Opie do that?
>> GEMMA: Because Clay
killed his father.
Piney's dead.
Clay put a shotgun to his chest.
>> TARA: Oh, my God.
>> GEMMA: He killed him because
he thinks he had the letters.
>> TARA: No.
Piney didn't...
he never even saw them.
>> GEMMA: I know.
But Clay will do anything to
stop that truth from
leaking out.
(Tara sighs)
He's the one that tried to have
you killed, Tara.
Clay hired those men that came
after you.
>> TARA: How do you know that?
>> GEMMA: He took money out of
our safe to pay 'em off.
I confronted him.
That's why he did this.
Clay... will keep on hurting
everything and everyone that
gets in his path...
until he gets those letters.
>> TARA: He threatened me
yesterday.
Told me Jax and I would never
make it out of Charming unless I
gave them to him.
>> GEMMA: 'Cause he's already
read 'em.
The copies.
He knows how dangerous they are.
Where are the letters, Tara?
I'll give them to Clay;
we put this to bed.
I'm out of options.
This may be the only way we get
out of this alive.
>> TARA (whispers): And if we do
that-- get out of this alive--
then you know Jax and I are
leaving.
>> GEMMA: I know.
(opens drawer)
(closes drawer)
(keys jangling)
>> TARA: They're in the
storage unit.
Towards the back, underneath a
stack of boxes.
Old TM receipts.
>> GEMMA: Okay.
>> TARA: Gemma.
Tell me you love me.
>> GEMMA: I love you.
>> JAX: When did you get
visitation?
>> LENNY (voice strained):
That's what I need to talk to
you about.
Otto made some kind of deal.
>> JAX: What are you talking
about?
>> LENNY: I heard it from the
guards.
He met with a Fed attorney, gave
up something, got me visitation
and yard time.
>> JAX: Shit.
Bobby visited Otto yesterday.
Never signed out.
Juice is MIA, too.
>> LENNY: Why the hell would
Otto flip?
>> JAX: Had to be something to
do with Luann.
>> LENNY: Uh, talk to Clay, let
me know what I should do.
>> JAX: Yeah, all right.
Hey... thanks, Lenny.
(talking indistinctly)
>> TIG (quietly): Come on, come
on, come on.
Come on.
(long sigh)
(panting)
Okay.
All right, come on, come on.
(engine roaring)
(loud grunt)
>> LAROY: Oh, shit! Look out!
(people yell)
(Tig yells)
>> V!
(engine starts)
(tires squeal)
V? Veronica?
(people screaming,
crying nearby)
(sobbing)
♪ ♪
>> TIG: Just be there, just be
there, all right?
(tires screeching)
I'm heading out of Oakland on
the 5-80, all right?
(engine revving)
(tires squealing)
(motorcycle engine starting)
>> JAX: They got him at the
garage, hit him twice.
>> ROMEO: Do they know who was
responsible?
>> JAX: Not yet.
Could be all the shit we stirred
up in Oakland.
>> LUIS: Well, we're sorry about
what happened to Clay.
But how do we handle today?
>> JAX: I can run the exchange
with the Kings, but we may have
a bigger problem.
I just heard from one of my guys
in Stockton.
We got a member inside who may
have flipped.
Otto Delaney.
He's been talking to the U.S.
attorney.
>> LUIS: Does Otto know about
us?
>> JAX: No, but he might have
given up another member.
It means the Feds could be
circling us.
Too big of a risk for today.
>> ROMEO: We've got contacts
that can find out about Otto.
Don't do anything till you hear
from us.
>> JAX: Yeah, okay.
All right.
>> ROMEO: Get ahold of Medina.
Have him vet out every agency.
Find out what the hell this is
about.
(cell phone ringing)
>> JAX: Yeah.
>> CHIBS: Tig's in trouble,
brother.
Needs an escort home.
Oaktown.
>> JAX: Shit!
(engine revving)
♪ ♪
>> LAROY: Drive, idiot.
(tires screeching)
(engines revving)
(horn honking)
(tires squealing)
>> TIG: Go.
(engines revving)
>> LAROY: Do not lose 'em!
Go!
(tires squeal, engines revving)
(tires squealing)
Damn it!
(horns honking)
What the hell's going on?
>> There was an accident up
ahead.
>> JAX: Go. Go ahead.
Chibs, we'll block him off-- you
and me.
Let's go, bro.
(gunfire)
(glass breaking, groaning)
>> LAROY: Damn!
(engine revving)
>> JAX: What happened?
>> TIG: I went after Laroy, man.
>> JAX: What the hell is the
matter with you?
>> CHIBS: Hey, we don't even
know if it was the Niners.
>> TIG: Come on, man.
Come on.
The way we backed Alvarez in
Oakland, it had to be Laroy that
gunned down Clay.
>> JAX: It is a club call, not
yours.
You're gonna start a goddamn
war, man.
>> TIG: I don't give a shit.
>> CHIBS: Yeah, obviously.
>> CHUCKY: Hey, Jax.
Rat just called.
Clay's out of surgery.
>> TIG: I'm gonna go see him.
>> JAX: Hey.
No more rogue shit.
Do you hear me?
>> TIG: Yeah.
(engine starting)
>> HAPPY: He's right.
Had to be Laroy.
He's got to die.
Like, a lot.
(phone ringing)
>> JAX: It's Romeo.
Yeah.
>> ROMEO: Had my contacts look
into Otto Delaney.
Not sure who he was talking to,
but he never sold out your club.
>> JAX: You sure?
My guy got it from inside.
>> ROMEO: I pay a lot of money
for information, Jax.
It's accurate.
Trust me, if I thought it was a
risk, I wouldn't be making this
call.
I'll see you at 3:00.
>> JAX: Yeah.
Okay.
We're a go.
Head up to the warehouse with
Tacoma.
Pull one of each big gun.
We'll need 'em for the meet.
Thanks.
(Happy whistles)
Track down Lowen.
Have her start making calls.
I'm starting to get really
worried about Juice and Bobby.
>> CHIBS: Aye.
Um, don't worry.
We'll-We'll find them.
>> JAX: All right.
(Jax sighs)
I'm gonna dig into Clay's
scheduling info, get up to speed
for the Irish.
(rhythmic beeping)
(breathing loudly)
>> TIG: Sorry, brother.
I should have stayed.
Had your back.
I mean, just turning in this SA
tag-- I don't know, man-- was
just kind of lost in this cartel
shit.
I love you, Clay.
I do.
I guess I'm having a hard time
wrapping my head around you
stepping down.
I don't know...
I don't know what I'm gonna look
like when that happens, you
know?
(door opens)
>> GEMMA: This is not your
fault, baby.
Oh, honey.
(Tig cries)
It's okay, sweetheart.
It's okay.
(Tig sobbing)
Oh.
He knows you love him.
It's okay, really.
(Tig sniffles)
>> TIG: Yeah.
Thanks.
Ah, shit.
Shit. How are you?
>> GEMMA: I'm fine.
>> TIG: Okay.
>> GEMMA: Where's Jax?
>> TIG: Oh, he's at the
clubhouse.
Uh... give me a minute, yeah?
>> GEMMA: Okay.
Sorry.
>> JAX: I've been looking for
you.
Shut the door.
What happened to Piney?
>> GEMMA: Clay killed him.
(Jax sighs)
>> JAX: Look, I know Clay and
Piney were beefing over this
cartel shit...
>> GEMMA: It wasn't over the
cartel.
It was over these.
Maureen Ashby put them in your
bag before you left Belfast.
They're letters from your
father.
Tara found them before you did.
>> JAX: Tara had these?
Why didn't she tell me?
>> GEMMA: She knew they would
break your heart.
Same way they did mine.
When Thomas got sick, your dad
stopped going to Belfast...
started writing to Maureen.
>> JAX: What does this have to
do with Clay?
>> GEMMA: JT and Kellan decided
to get the MC out of guns, away
from the IRA.
Clay thought it was a mistake.
He was afraid John would destroy
the club.
So he decided to kill him.
The first time...
he sent John into a Mayan
ambush, unprotected.
Your dad made it out.
But he knew it was Clay who'd
set it up.
And he knew Clay would
try again.
He predicted it would
be mechanical.
He was right.
>> JAX: The accident.
>> GEMMA: The only person JT
ever let work on his bike was
Lowell Sr.
Clay must have... paid him off
or threatened him.
He had to be the one who
sabotaged the Panhead.
>> JAX: Lowell Sr. was killed by
the Mayans a week later.
>> GEMMA: Yeah.
Clay buried the secret.
(sighs)
>> JAX: How do you know
all this?
>> GEMMA: The letters.
The speculation.
The Mayan ambush.
John knew Clay would kill him.
And Clay knew those letters
would prove it.
Enough to get him voted out,
undo everything he'd worked for.
>> JAX: Piney got ahold of
these.
>> GEMMA: He must have
threatened Clay.
>> JAX (quietly): Oh, my God.
>> GEMMA: That's not all.
I found the cover letter Maureen
wrote telling you to read them.
It was in your house.
I knew Tara was the one who'd
found them.
I... I panicked.
I told Clay.
>> JAX: Clay knew...
that Tara had these?
>> GEMMA: He tried to kill Tara.
That thing that happened in the
park, that wasn't the cartel.
That was guys Clay hired
to kill your wife, Jax.
>> JAX: How did you get them?
>> GEMMA: Tara gave them to me.
Don't be upset with her.
She didn't want you
to read them.
She didn't know what you
might do.
>> JAX: Why are you telling me
this, Mom?
Why now?
>> GEMMA: Because I know how
dangerous secrets can be.
And it's time we all
knew the truth.
Clay Morrow killed your father.
Stole that seat away
from this family.
Gunned down your father's
best friend.
And he tried to kill your wife.
He's a murderous traitor.
And there's only one thing to do
now, Jackson.
For your father, your family
and your club.
It's in you.
It's who you are.
Clay has to die.
Read 'em.
See him in your father's
own hand.
And then you kill him, Jax.
You kill Clay before he's on his
feet and strikes first.
And when it's done...
you take your place at the head
of this table...
where a Teller belongs.
Where you belong.
(footsteps departing)
♪ ♪
>> UNSER: Clay came through
the surgery.
Lung's okay.
Should be out of intensive care
in a few days.
>> GEMMA: Good.
>> UNSER: So...
what happens now?
>> GEMMA: Things are in motion.
>> UNSER: Yeah.
I have no doubt.
But maybe you want to tell me
what the hell that means?
(car door opens)
>> GEMMA: Tara gave me the
letters.
Jax is reading them.
>> UNSER: Oh, Christ!
>> GEMMA: Not all of them.
We're protected.
Clay...
not so much.
>> TARA: Got a minute?
>> UNSER: Uh, yeah, I'll... go
give Chucky a hand.
Doc.
(Tara clears throat)
>> TARA: I been waiting for you.
>> GEMMA: Yeah, I know.
>> TARA: Where are the letters?
Did you bring them to Clay?
>> GEMMA: No.
>> TARA: How many did you take
out before you gave them to Jax?
>> GEMMA: If you knew...
why'd you tell me where
they were?
>> TARA: Because I'm smarter
than you are, Gemma...
and I know Jax better than
you do.
(door opens)
>> JAX: You should have told me.
>> TARA: I was going to.
When you got out, you were so
eager to leave, I just...
I was afraid it would push you
back in. I'm sorry.
>> JAX: I have to kill him,
Tara.
>> TARA: I know.
And this is how you do it.
It's a blood thinner.
Inject it into his IV line and
pull the tube from his chest.
He'll bleed into his lungs
and... drown.
It'll happen quick.
You know, just... look like he
pulled it out in his sleep.
(Chibs whistles)
>> CHIBS: Jackie!
Time for the meet!
We got to go, brother.
(closes zipper)
>> TARA: You kill him...
and then you come and get me and
our boys and drive us out of
this poisonous town.
>> JAX: I will.
I promise.
>> GEMMA: What are you doing?
>> TARA: Everything you
taught me.
He's mine.
♪ ♪
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org